>> Steve Kinney: So
how do we improve that?
We have to measure.
There's no point like I'm gonna
do this performance optimization.
How do you know that A it worked or B you
didn't actually slow things down, right?
Cuz that is sometimes possible if you
don't actually know what you're doing.
So we always want to measure first.
This is a quote from Rob Pike,
which is measure.
Don't tune for
speed until you've measured, and
even then don't unless one
part overwhelms the rest.
It's easy to start with the first page,
and there's a performance bottle neck, but
it might not be the most important one.
There's this application called Skylight,
which is rails performance monitoring
thing, and
what it does is it rates stuff by agony.
The agony metric is how slow that page is,
multiplied by how many
people visit that page.
So if your terms of service
page is slow to load,
is that the first thing you
should optimize vs the home page?
The home page probably won't be.
Like yeah the home page which gets all
this traffic versus the terms of service
which nobody reads right?
You should like optimize the things that
are kind of important and start there.
So yeah we don't wanna go just blindly
like you can see this and go like I know
all these things now I'm gonna go and
then implement it my application but like.
We want to make sure we know
what's happening because every
abstraction has some kind of trade-off.
We'll see things in this course today
where it's like the Chrome team
implemented this one feature to make
things faster most of the time, but
it turns out that some of the time
it makes some of the things slower.
Unless you're measuring you're
gonna have no way of knowing that.
And you could be doing quote unquote
a bad thing to your application,
in the name of doing a good thing, right?
So it's important to measure because like,
yeah, it gets really like easy to see the
very next pull request on your app, and
start like dispensing advice that you
read on a blog post about performance,
when we don't actually have
any real data to talk about.
And it is one of those things where I do
think we do need to regularly be looking
at performance,
because if we're not, yeah,
yeah it's fast enough, until it's not,
and then it's usually not one big
performance thing that is your problem,
but it's like death by a thousand cuts.
It's a thousand things that take
about twice as long as they should,
that end up bringing your application
to a crawl and I can testify to that.
So, just some things to think about.
Are we testing on fancy Macbook Pros or
consumer grade hardware?
Are we simulating less than
perfect network conditions?
We'll talk a little bit about how slow
wi-fi is actually phenomenally worse
than like or inconsistent WiFi is even
worst than a consistent slow WiFi,
but slow WiFi even for
users is just general.
I'd rather have no WiFi than slow WiFi.
I'd rather be okay, there's no Internet,
I'm gonna read a book.
I can see the timeline loading.
Like not cool.
And then finally thinking
about performance budgets.
I think this is a really
useful technique of like,
this is the state of our application.
We don't want it to get this much slower.
We'd like it to get this much faster and
starting there and then setting those
new budgets as you improve some stuff.
So the one last thing to think about is,
measuring is not free.
I'm gonna put a bunch of console logs in
my application, they're gonna log the time
every second except those console
logs need to execute, right?
And you are slowing down
your app by looking at it.
And that's another kind of
important thing to keep in mind,
is you can put all these
reporting matrix everywhere.
But you will also slow down
the application by doing that, so
don't get carried away.
And one final piece of advice is a lot of
this stuff is gonna is thinking about what
we call micro-optimizations.
These tiny little things we would get
the this button to go just a little bit
faster, right.
In the state management course that we
have on Front End Masters we talk a little
bit about the fact that sometimes
just the way you store your data and
not doing a bunch of crazy stuff.
And the way you architect the application,
itself, can make stuff faster
before you even worry about the actual
parts and compilation performance.
Sometimes it's like, hey, you actually
have a table with 1000 rows on the page.
And having all those
rows in the DOM is slow.
What if you just added pagination?
Sometimes the answer is not some of
the stuff we're going to talk about today.
I want to make that disclaimer now.
Sometimes just thinking about
the design of your application,
the way you manage the state
in your application.
There's not one silver bullet that's going
to solve all your performance problems,
which is why we all get paid Money, right.
Cuz if was an easy, just apply this rule,
we'd have computers do it, right.
Everything that we can automate to the
point where there's no critical thinking
about it, we have put into algorithms,
and that's how the ones and
zeroes that come over, the error
into my computer, make stuff happen.
All right.
Final disclaimer as we go through this
is that there are three tiers of advice,
definitely do this.
Maybe do this, but
measure before and after.
And only do this if you have
a problem that needs solving, right?
And so, we kind of use these as our three
benchmarks as we talk about different
techniques cuz again I'll say this,
I'm going to say this 100 times today.
Some things might make your application
faster in some cases or slower in another.
And like, unless you know what the problem
is, you don't know what's going to happen.
Now, I'm happy to unveil to you,
the TLDR of this course,
which are my two golden
rules of performance.
Are you all prepared for this?
Rule number one,
doing less stuff takes less time.
[LAUGH] You laugh but like literally,
[LAUGH] this is all we're doing today,
is like how do we do less stuff?
Cuz anytime you do less stuff it's faster.
Not doing something is way
faster than doing something.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool.
I ruined this slide.
We'll go on.
[LAUGH] To the second one which is,
one would argue, this is a [INAUDIBLE] to
the first one, which is, doing stuff
later is better than doing it now.
Right?
But doing it later,
you're not doing it now.
And what's faster than doing stuff?
Not doing stuff.
So, when in doubt, if you can get
away with not doing it, don't do it.
If you have to do it and
you can do it later, do it later.
One would argue this
is performance advice,
another person might argue
this is life advice.
I'll let you be the judge of that.
I'm not going to go down that road but
it's definitely true for web performance.
All right, rough outline of the day.
Talk about JavaScript performance.
One would argue that if we were doing this
in chronological order we were going to
talk about load performance first, but
we're not doing this in
chronological order.
We're doing this in my order,
which is we're going to talk
about JavaScript performance.
We wanna write code that runs faster,
later, or not at all, right?
Cuz not doing stuff is faster.
Got it, so we'll talk a little bit
about how your JavaScript is compiled.
We send this text file over
to the browser, then what?
We'll talk a little bit
about what happens there.
Because if you just Google JavaScript
performance, half the stuff
in those blog posts was true when the blog
post was written, is not true anymore.
And it can become very difficult to
figure out like what actually is true,
what's not true.
What true in your application,
what's not true in your application, so
actually we talk about how
JavaScript engine works.
We'll look at V8 in specific.
We'll actually see how the entire
process of, you sent code.
There is code on page,
actually happens under the hood.
And we'll actually benchmark it
ourselves and try to optimize and
unoptimize stuff and see what happens.
Then, okay, we've run code.
We're ready to build app.
We need to think about
rendering performance.
Cuz that JavaScript code, as I said
earlier, does not exist in a vacuum.
It has to interact with the.
Unless you're just writing code that's
mining Bitcoin in their browser while
they're doing something else, likely
you are changing the user interface.
There are implications to that
that we need to think about.
Lastly, load performance.
If you do not get the application to
the user, the other two are irrelevant.